---
slug: variations-on-kandinsky
title: Variations on Kandinsky
type: performance
submission_type: Performance
contributors:
- person: $copper-monique
---

# $PROGRAM_NOTE

‘Variations on Kandinsky’ is inspired upon the geometrical forms which Kandinsky used for his mise-en-scène to Mussorgsky’s ‘Pictures at an Exhibition’. Monique will improvise with the Codeklavier to be able to generate code for two purposes: a visual narrative with geometrical forms on an html canvas, and real-time electronic accompaniment to her piano playing. Electronic music always played an important role during Monique Copper’s career. She worked in Ton Bruynèl’s electronic studio and has since performed his piano music with tape. “With Bruynèl (1934-1998) we often discussed the future of electronic music. In particular during the transition from analogue to digital. The computer was seen as a natural continuation of the electronic music but in particular we foresaw the development into a live musical instrument. The computer will be one of the next generation of musical instruments ready for live performances”.

# $ABSTRACT

This presentation uses the Codeklavier, a live-coding environment for the piano. Monique Copper will improvise around certain chords, themes and other musical elements that have been mapped in the Codeklavier to generate javascript and supercollider code. The result is a solo instant piano piece with electronic music and html visuals. ‘Variations on Kandinsky’ is inspired upon the geometrical forms which Kandinsky used for his mise-en-scène to Mussorgsky’s ‘Pictures at an Exhibition’. The audience will experience geometrical forms develop while improvising on elements from Mussorgsky’s piece. Originally in 1928, Kandinsky’s geometrical forms were shown as large theatre pieces. The pieces moved around the stage following the choreography by Kandinsky. In this way Kandinsky could build up his ‘Tableaux’ during the musical pieces. In the late nineties Monique recreated this mise-en-scène with analogue slide projections. She performed Pictures at an Exhibition world-wide together with this slide-show. Electronic music always played an important role during Monique Copper’s career. She worked in Ton Bruynèl’s electronic (analogue) studio and has since performed his piano music with tape. Bruynèl was a pioneer of electronic music in the Netherlands since the early fifties. Becoming acquainted with this analogue studio was for Monique Copper the reason to stay connected with electronic music and its development in the Netherlands. “With Bruynèl (1934-1998) we often discussed the future of electronic music. In particular during the transition from analogue to digital. The computer was seen as a natural continuation of the electronic music but in particular we foresaw the development into a live musical instrument. The computer will be one of the next generation of musical instruments ready for live performances”. In 2014 Monique started collaborating with live coder Felipe Ignacio Noriega in a Trio with Vietnamese musician Ngo Hong Quang. In 2020 Felipe introduced the Codeklavier to Monique.