---
slug: neowise-5-8-v-e
title: Neowise 5.8 V/E
type: performance
submission_type: Performance
contributors:
- person: $champlin-alicia
---

# $PROGRAM_NOTE

Neowise 5.8 V/E is a constructed/deconstructed soundscape, last of a series of minimalist improvisations inspired by the unfathomable orbit of the comet they are named afer. Using just 2 or 3 samples in TidalCycles, it layers the ringing of the spheres, and beams out harmonics like a prism spliting light into distinct colors. Te samples used are recordings of a bow chime, a very physical instrument which plays you in return. Recordings of this acoustic behemoth cannot track the experience of it live, but by manipulating these samples, we find new means to engage with the tangible shapes of orbits and conjunctions. In this last scene of the series, the live bow chime also joins the stage as recompense to the early studies’ original explorations of ebb and return. Dedicated to Mat Samolis in gratitude for his mentorship.

# $ABSTRACT

Neowise is a live coding composition originating as a series of minimalist studies with samples from a bow chime1 . Of this series, Neowise3 is published on Down Te Rabbit Hole (2021)2 . Te 4th was a primitive atempt at spatialization for 8 channels, presented live at Algobiente III (2022)3 . Neowise 5.8 V/E is presented as the 5th in the series, a 360° immersive, hybrid (acoustic/electroacoustic) performance. Te piece is a constructed/deconstructed soundscape inspired by the unfathomable orbit of the comet it is named afer. Using TidalCycles, it layers the ‘ringing of the spheres’, and beams out harmonics like a prism spliting light into distinct colors. Te three short samples used are vocalizations of the bow chime, a very physical instrument which plays the performer in return. Recordings of this acoustic behemoth cannot track the experience of it live, but by the algorithmic manipulation of these samples, we find new means to engage with the tangible shapes of orbits and conjunctions. Finally, in this last of the series, the live bow chime joins the stage as recompense to the early studies’ original explorations of ebb and return. Te use of bow chime samples was reflective of my parallel practice with this instrument, which was displaced during most of the pandemic. Afer immigrating to Spain, I was without an instrument and could not source materials to build one due to pandemic restrictions, and so I leaned into this live coding composition as a proxy for the physical instrument. Ten in spring 2022, I built a new full-size bow chime, and in late summer, another sized for long-haul travel. With the return of this acoustic practice to my studio, I now present this reprise of Neowise with both live-coding and live instrument, to bring the orbit of this narrative full circle.

1 A bow chime (a.k.a. steel cello) is a DIY acoustic instrument, built (with modifications) in the tradition of Robert Rutman (Berlin, 1931) and in this case under the mentorship of Mat Samolis (Syracuse, 1964). It is comprised of a freestanding steel frame which anchors a sheet-metal resonator under stress of a curve, several tunable vertical steel rods, and an assortment of cymbals. It is played with a bow, with a give-and-take technique that is highly dependent on haptic feedback. A full-size bow chime may exceed 2m(l) x 2m(h) x 0.75m(w) assembled. 2 Down the Rabbit Hole, a compilation of live coding works from TOPLAP Barcelona, on Call It Anything Records (2021) 3 Algobiente III, 3rd edition of Barcelona’s premier ambient, multichannel live coding showcase (Barcelona, 2022).